From SQL Injection to Code Execution
Let’s see how far we can
push this vulnerability.
Depending on the operating system,
service privileges,
and filesystem permissions,
SQL injection vulnerabilities
can be used to read
and write files on the
underlying operating system.
Writing a carefully crafted file
containing PHP code
into the root directory of the web server
could then be leveraged
for full code execution.
First, let’s see if we can read a
file using the load_file function.
This should output the
contents of the hosts file.
Next, we’ll try to use the
INTO OUTFILE function
to create a malicious PHP file
in the server’s web root.
Based on error messages
we’ve already seen,
we should know the
location of the web root.
We’ll attempt to write
a simple PHP one-liner,
similar to the one
used in the LFI example.
If this succeeds, the file should
be placed in the web root.
This command produces an error message
but this doesn’t necessarily mean the
file creation was unsuccessful.
Let’s try to access the
newly-created backdoor.php page
with a cmd parameter such as ipconfig.
Excellent.
We have now turned our SQL injection
vulnerability into code execution
on the server.
We can easily expand this
to full shell access with
the installation of a webshell.